# **Abortion Data Analysis using Bayesian Inference**

Coming from a country where abortion is illegal to the United States of America where abortion is legal (per state), hence, I assume that the legality of abortion will make the abortion rate high. In this project, I’m interested in studying abortion in the USA over the last few years. I will be using the Markov Chain Monte Carlo (MCMC) method to analyze this claim because the MCMC methods helps me to approximate the posterior distribution of the abortion rate by random sampling in a probabilistic space. In this project, I will study the differences in the abortion rate in the United States of America from 2015 – 2020 and determine if truly, there is a significant increase or decrease in successive years. This analysis will be used to validate or disprove my initial claim.

**Data Source:** The data for this analysis was gotten from Johnson’s archive which feeds from the Center for Disease Control (CDC) database. The data contains the number of abortions in the 50 states in the USA plus the District of Columbia.

## **The questions that will be answered are:**
  1.  Is there a difference in the mean number of abortions in the USA from 2015 to 2016?
  2.  Is there a difference in the mean number of abortions in the USA from 2017 to 2018?
  3.  Is there a difference in the mean number of abortions in the USA from 2019 to 2020?
  
## **Analysis and Conclusion**
Based on the results of the analysis, there’s no conclusive evidence to validate my claim that the abortion rate in the United Stated of America is high. The abortion rates of 2015 were probably higher than the abortion rate in 2016. This result is corroborated by the Center for Disease Control (CDC) abortion report in 2016. It says “from 2015 to 2016, the total number of reported abortions decreased 2% (from 636,902), the abortion rate decreased 2% (from 11.8 abortions per 1,000 women aged 15–44 years), and the abortion ratio decreased 1% (from 188 abortions per 1,000 live births)”. Similarly, the abortion rates of 2017 were probably lesser than the abortion rates in 2018. This result is also corroborated by the CDC abortion report in 2018. It says “from 2017 to 2018, the total number of abortions and abortion rate increased 1% (from 609,095 total abortions and from 11.2 abortions per 1,000 women aged 15–44 years, respectively), and the abortion ratio increased 2% (from 185 abortions per 1,000 live births)”. Lastly, the abortion rate of 2019 is probably higher than the abortion rate in 2020. This conclusion is also corroborated by the CDC in the 2020 abortion report. It says “from 2019 to 2020, the total number of abortions decreased 2% (from 625,346 total abortions), the abortion rate decreased 2% (from 11.4 abortions per 1,000 women aged 15–44 years), and the abortion ratio increased 2% (from 195 abortions per 1,000 live births)”. As the years go by and more data become available, I can retest my initial claim
